We use JSON-RPC protocol for frontend applications to access essential functionalities of the TREX network.
We build our node software upon the Substrate framework. Thus, it supports all default public RPC calls from a Substrate node.
For more information about JSON-RPC methods, you may access [the official Substrate document](https://docs.substrate.io/build/remote-procedure-calls/)

# List RPC methods
For example, if we host a local node with an HTTP endpoint http://localhost:9933

We may access the node and get all available RPC methods with a JSON-RPC call like the one below.
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "rpc_methods"}' http://localhost:9933/
```
The node will return a list of RPC methods.

# Blockchain metadata
You can access the metadata of the TREX network using the following script.
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id":1, "jsonrpc":"2.0", "method": "state_getMetadata"}' http://localhost:9933/
```

# Enclave (TEE) related methods
There is a list of specific methods designed for the TREX node and its off-chain worker in the SGX enclaves. Since all off-chain workers must register with the TREX network, the front-end users may access the information of off-chain workers.

## `enclave_count (no params)`
This method lists the number of all available enclaves. For example, you may use the below shell script.
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id": 1, "jsonrpc": "2.0", "method": "enclave_count"}' http://localhost:9933/
```
This method will result in an integer representing the number of total available enclaves.

A simple JavaScript example is suggested, like the one below.
```JavaScript
function get_enclave_count_request(endpoint) {
  let request = new Request(endpoint, {
    method: "POST",
    body: JSON.stringify({
      id: 1,
      jsonrpc: "2.0",
      method: "enclave_count",
    }),
    headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
  });
  return request;
}
```

## `enclave_select (params:u64)`
This method allows users to select a number of enclaves for threshold encryption. The RPC call will return the secret key and account information required by the user according to the number of necessary enclaves.
```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"id": 1, "jsonrpc": "2.0", "method": "enclave_select","params":[8]}' http://localhost:9933/
```
When the number of registered enclaves is less than the number of enclaves required by request, an error of not enough enclaves is returned.
```JSON
{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "error": {"code":2, "message":"Not enough enclave accounts", "data":""}, "id":1}
```
The network will return no registered enclave error if there is no registered enclave.
```JSON
{"jsonrpc": "2.0", "error": {"code":2, "message":"No enclave is registered", "data":""}, "id":1}
```